WISE² LINUX OS — SURFACE LAPTOP 4 / INTEL / 16 GB

This USB contains an Ubuntu 24.04 amd64 installer and WISE² workstation setup.
It is not yet a remastered WISE² live OS image.

1. Boot this USB from Surface UEFI. With Secure Boot enabled, allow
   Microsoft & 3rd-party CA signatures. Connect a USB keyboard/mouse if needed.
2. Choose WISE2 Linux OS - Start Ubuntu installer. If the display fails,
   choose Safe graphics. Boot diagnostics exposes error messages.
3. Install Ubuntu to the disk you actually intend to use. The attached USB
   also has a 247.5 GB Linux partition: do not assume it is empty or format it
   without checking its contents. These scripts do not partition any disk.
   IMPORTANT: the installer's disk list shows both this external USB drive
   and the Surface's own internal disk. Check the device size and/or model
   name in the installer before confirming — it is easy to pick the wrong
   one by accident, and installing to the internal disk instead of this USB
   will not boot the way these instructions expect.
4. Reboot into installed Ubuntu and connect to the internet.
5. Open the WISE2INST volume in Files, open wise2-branding, right-click blank
   space and choose Open in Terminal. Run:

   bash START-WISE2.sh --no-ollama-model

   Omit --no-ollama-model to download the selected local AI model as well.

6. Reboot. If the blue Surface MOK enrollment screen appears, select Enroll
   MOK, Continue, Yes; password: surface (QWERTY layout).
7. WISE² Command Center starts at desktop login. WISE² Research opens the
   Agent-Reach channel diagnostics. WISE² Shannon Security runs AI pentests.
   Tailscale sign-in: sudo tailscale up

Installation log: ~/.local/state/wise2/install.log
Dashboard: http://127.0.0.1:3080
Dashboard service: systemctl status wise2-command-center
Surface kernel: uname -r (look for surface after reboot)

Shannon (github.com/KeygraphHQ/shannon, AGPLv3, pinned v3.3.0) is an
autonomous AI pentester. install-shannon.sh wires it to the local Ollama
model wise2-setup.sh already installs, so scans run at zero API cost.
Launch: wise2-shannon -u <target-url> -r <repo-path>
(defaults: http://127.0.0.1:3080, /opt/wise2/core). It only reports findings
with a working exploit. Only scan apps you own or are authorized to test —
do not point it at production. First-time provider setup: wise2-shannon setup.

Dashboard: WISE² Command Center (topbar + sidebar chrome, Command Center
view with the original map/incidents/IMP-assistant panels, and a Security
Center view wired to Shannon — scan controls, live terminal, findings,
vulnerability breakdown). Sidebar items without a built feature yet
(Development, Projects, Clients, Edge Devices, Deploy, Monitor, Storage,
Network, Settings) show an explicit "not yet implemented" placeholder
instead of silently doing nothing.

install-wise2-theme.sh themes GNOME itself: top bar + accent color (GNOME
Shell), login screen background (GDM), and a WISE² boot splash (Plymouth).
Files, Settings, and the Activities overview stay standard GNOME, just
styled — this is not a full custom shell. UNVERIFIED beyond syntax checks:
it was written on macOS, which has no GNOME/GDM/Plymouth to test against.
Reboot to see the boot splash and login screen; log out/in to see the top
bar theme (enable the User Themes extension manually if it doesn't
auto-enable).

Agent-Reach account-dependent channels need setup.
Upstream software names/licenses are retained. Ubuntu remains the base OS.
